I have done the vegan thing I have tried
the low protein thing it will provably
make you feel like crap which will make
you wish you didn't live longer
they've asked me welcome back to the
show I love the new set thank you man I
appreciate that diving right in what are
five foods that people should stop
eating if they want to live a very very
long time
anything that's fake plant-based
replacement for something animal based
and you can just stop that but it's
going to be made from Plants it doesn't
really matter if it's trying to replace
meat with plants it's not the same thing
and it's a highly processed food by
definition
is it the highly processed that's the
problem or is it not eating the meat
that's the problem they're both problems
but the highly processed is definitely
independently a problem you look at egg
replacement stuff it's a chemical
concoction you look at the meat
Replacements it's random oils and random
carbs designed to taste like meat but it
won't have the same effect biologically
so we have people telling themselves
that they're being healthy but they're
actually eating stuff that is provably
less healthy for them there's something
called phytic acid which is one of the
five big types of plant toxins that I've
written about in the bulletproof diet
and phytic acid is something that
inhibits your ability to absorb minerals
and you find it in grains you find it in
corn you find it in oats you find it in
oat milk and things like that and what
that means is that even if you get
minerals from food that are depleted you
can't absorb them and there's protein
digestion blockers that are present in
plant proteins that stop you from
absorbing that protein and the other
protein you might eat from something
like an egg or a piece of meat so we
have a problem we say it's healthy but
it's not and then we have kale and
spinach especially raw which are full of
another plant toxin called oxalic acid
that is causing kidney stones gout and
even something called vulvodynia which
is when razor sharp crystals of calcium
oxalate form in the vulva which is
really painful for women and they don't
know it and then they eat another kale
salad Chase it with a kale smoothie kale
is not a superfood it actually has
things that keep you from wanting to eat
it and it shreds your gut
Okay so we've got a couple Foods in
there that we've called out by name so
we've got problems with grains it sounds
like because it's there is the something
acid God damn it what was it oxalic acid
kale and spinach are the two major
sources but it's presence in other
things even like almonds I'm not saying
that they're always bad for you but too
many seeds and nuts will contain enough
phytic acid and oxalic acid to steal the
minerals out of your body what I'm
thinking they steal the minerals or do
they stop them from being absorbed both
so what I'm finding in the context of
all this anti-aging research I've done
written a very big book about it 20
years of running a non-profit in the
space
when you are depleted of minerals none
of the repair systems in the body or the
energy systems can work since phytic
acid which is present in most of these
grains and nuts is something that can
suck calcium from your bones it can
cause osteoporosis and zinc Earth and
copper that's a chemical reaction it
turns out plants they don't want us to
eat them so they can't run away so they
make this to inhibit our ability to use
the minerals in the plants it's just
Mother Nature fighting with itself okay
so which is utterly fascinating but I
want to understand phytic acid better so
I'm eating something that's been highly
processed is is is it that there's
something in the processing of these
items that the phytic acid is isolated
and there's more of it or I'm just
getting so many grains so many nuts so
many oils that I'm just getting a ton of
phytic acid in my system they're
tricking you into eating more grains and
they're processed in a way that has more
phytic acid for instance a rice cake is
surprisingly high in phytic acid and
puffed oats is terrible for you but if
you went back the traditional way of
soaking and sprouting or things like
that that actually reduces phytic acid
so we knew about this ancestrally and we
would prioritize meat and dairy
especially dairy fat and no one was
allergic to milk because we hadn't
broken Dairy back then so that was where
you would get your calories and your
fast breaking Dairy me well you
create a breed of cows that makes highly
allergenic Dairy and because it tastes
better has higher sugar content I'm
assuming just because it produces more
milk okay and it happens to have these
side effects yep it's called A1 casein
versus A2 casein and so the old breed of
cows that make less milk but more
nutritious milk don't make the
allergenic proteins so many people can
handle raw A2 milk but when you take a
cow that makes A1 milk and you feed it
corn and soy so it has the wrong fats
and it has a bunch of other allergenic
proteins then you cook the milk briefly
which makes it more allergic and then
you press it through a very fine sieve
under high pressure so all the tiny
droplets of fat are so small your body
can't use them and then you take out
whatever fat you wanted to take out and
make skim milk which is provably worse
for you than whole fat milk and you give
it to your kids and you wonder why
there's a problem that's the problem if
we hadn't done all that we would have
far fewer milk allergies than we do
today okay so your density of
information per words spoken is insane
so I'm going to keep trying to like make
sure that I get takeaways here okay so
phytic acid we're getting a lot of it in
the way that we're hyper processing
these plant meat replacement plant-based
items but I still want to understand so
the phytic acid is leaching minerals
calcium out of my bones calcium many
different minerals how Okay so is it is
it because I'm breaking the barrier in
my gut and the phytic acid is getting
into my bloodstream in a way that it
shouldn't or is it actually a an
absorbable mineral like how does this so
phytic acid is a chelating agent and
what a chelating agent is is something
that has a very strong affinity for
minerals and and it binds to that it
sticks to the minerals and then your
kidneys have to excrete them it's known
in agriculture in fact they measure
phytic acid and feed of cows and
chickens because they know if they give
them too much the animals stop growing
but they don't really control for it in
human they feed cows like corn though
they do but they actually give them
enzymes called phytase and phytase stops
phytic acid humans don't make any phytes
so that's why we shouldn't be eating
grains Okay so it is a big reason why so
because we also obviously with
gluten for sure we know that that's
going to break the Junctions in your
epithelial lining of your gut which is
going to allow proteins into your blood
which creates the immune response which
gives you wild inflammation so that's
also a problem but now we've had almost
every whole grain will do that even
including brown rice has problems that's
why you do white rice as the safest
grain so there are people who say oh
there's no gluten in that it's corn well
corn has a protein called Zine that's
very similar so all grains do it because
we don't work well on grains they're
great for not dying of starvation that's
why we developed agriculture the problem
is they create shorter people they
create crooked teeth they create spinal
problems and they're not an ideal food
for living a long time yes croissants
taste good I'm not arguing that I'm just
saying it's not worth it you can make
something out of rice with real butter
and real eggs and it's going to taste
pretty good and you'll live a lot longer
because you don't deal with any of those
problems and if you want to live a long
time you want to eat mineral minerals in
every food you can get but most plants
and even most animals are deficient in
minerals because we pull them out of our
soil a long time ago as I've learned
more and more about anti-aging as I've
transformed myself lost 100 pounds and
I'm not gonna lie you look better than
the last time I saw you thank you all
right I like to think it's working I'm
11 and a quarter years younger in My
methylation DNA test than my actual age
so I think it's working and I came from
behind just given how unhealthy I used
to be
so
you look at all this minerals are a
uniting element and what I've been doing
over the past five years is studying
minerals and increasing the amount of
minerals the macro minerals like calcium
not too much calcium though magnesium
potassium but specifically trace
minerals which is what makes danger
coffee my new coffee brand very
different is there's more than 50
different trace minerals that you would
have gotten in eating meat or eggs or
plants but they're just missing from our
environment because we've over farmed
our soil and because we take all these
chemicals in our food that are sticking
to the minerals so we don't absorb them
so I put them as a part of danger coffee
so I'm getting a big dose of minerals
every time I drink my coffee which is
there to help restore the mineral
balance in the body more minerals you
live longer
why
every single process in your body is
driven by enzymes and what enzymes do in
Biochemistry is enzymes allow a chemical
reaction to happen with very little
energy so when you make ATP which is how
your cells are making electricity when
you fold a protein properly so that you
have healthy proteins instead of
misfolded proteins in your brain which
is a contributor to alzheimer's we think
well you have to have minerals to form
the enzymes and if you're low on
minerals the body won't make the enzymes
and then you can't do the repair
processes
okay so now we're getting into
mitochondria we're getting into the
things we want to be adding into our
diet I want to close the loop on the
things we want to be removing from our
diet so the big problems that we're
creating I assume are inflammation
related
leaching more minerals out of the system
when you think about longevity I've
heard you say a lot that you know the
reason that we should be able to live to
180 is because if somebody was you know
born let's say 100 120 years ago they
didn't have all of the technology and
knowledge and all of that that we have
now but I would say I would say that the
data shows that we're actually living
shorter because of now I'm guessing
environmental toxins all of the
big agriculture all of the things that
we've done leeching the soil of minerals
all that that you actually would have
had an easier time if you were born 120
years ago to live 120 years than you
would being born today now if somebody
does what you're doing that may be not
the case but I think that most people
are going to be at such a wild
disadvantage that first they need to
understand why this is actually a worse
time to have been born if you want to
live 180 years then it would have been
to say be born 60 or 70 years ago
when do you agree with that because if
you don't I want to debate I don't agree
with all right tell me why you don't
agree okay
if you got sick 70 years ago you'd go to
the doctor
doctors seven years ago didn't know very
much at all they would do the craziest
stuff a lot of them are influenced by Dr
Kellogg you know behind Corn Flakes who
invented low-fat foods to drop male
testosterone yeah that's still crazy
okay that was part of Medical Training
and just all this weird stuff so there
was nothing you could do if things went
sideways and the doctors were telling
you to smoke all the time because hey
this is the brand of cigarettes that
doctors recommend the most those same
type of personalities are the ones
telling you to eat plant-based Foods
instead of meat the ones telling you to
eat corn and soy and other oils like
that that are provably bad for you
because they don't know any better so
you wouldn't have had anywhere you could
go today yes we have tons of
environmental pollutants we have
artificial blue light that is not good
for you but you have more control over
your environment today than at any time
in human history you have access to more
information than a or a president 50
years ago for free at your fingertips so
you have control
you have choices that no human on earth
had 50 years ago that means yeah if you
don't do anything you have less of a
chance but it means you can do things
and you know what to do now in a way
that's unprecedented in all of recorded
history
okay you ready for the rebuttal yes
I concede every point that you made for
people that are plugged in and they're
engaged with all of that so
on the for the people that are awake
that's what I refer to as being awake in
The Matrix if you're awake in The Matrix
100 like way better time to be alive
but the reason I think the average
person is in a way worse position is you
can't accidentally remain healthy in the
way that you could accidentally remain
healthy 100 years ago because they just
hadn't created all of the things that
can create a problem whether it was
ingest like the fact that I have to
worry and I know that you actually have
a solution for this but the fact that I
have to take a supplement when I have
sushi because I have to worry about the
uh heavy metals that have gotten into
the fish like the fact that tuna eat
like smaller fish and those smaller fish
are eating microplastics and heavy
metals and like that's crazy it's
terrible so that there are so many
things like that leaching the vitamins
and or minerals excuse me out of the
soil
[Music]
also just loneliness uh social media
[__] with people's psychology like
there are so many things stacked against
you that if you're not awake that
they're just it's hard to accidentally
be healthy
now to your point I would rather be
alive now than ever so I don't want
anybody to confuse what I'm saying like
this is the best time to be alive thank
God I couldn't be more
um stoked about the moment that we're
living through
but when I look at
how much the average person is
struggling whether it's opioid addiction
or all of the things that I just
mentioned like this is a rough time to
not be paying a lot of attention
and that worries me and I mean look if
you've made it this far into this
episode you're the kind of person that
pays attention but I want to walk people
through some of the things that they
need to do some of the whys uh and I
think that this will get really really
interesting okay so we know that we want
to avoid highly processed foods we know
that we have to be careful over
consuming grains for sure but you've put
your finger on a lot of potential
problems with being even going all the
way vegan dude I was a raw vegan I was a
regular vegan it made me profoundly sick
and there's a programmable thing we know
happens when you go vegan in plant-based
even if you tell yourself it's for the
planet or for your health or for the
animals none of those is true those are
propaganda the same way that the
propagandists were telling you in the
1940s to smoke
so that seems crazy so let's take just
the first one one at a time so it seems
unarguable that it you love animals that
you should eat plants
oh it seems unarguable but do you know
about deaths per calorie
only because I've studied you yes but
please for people that have not
when I was a vegan I stopped being a
vegan because I went to Nepal and Tibet
to learn meditation from the Masters
a Buddhist llama at a monastery
where there's a big sign that says no
killing
was talking with me and I said you have
a yak skin on your prayer pole you
killed the yak you're a hypocrite
Buddhists loved to argue it was not
disrespectful and he laughs at me he
goes one death feeds everyone
and I took that back when I stopped
being a vegan because it was making me
sick and I thought about it and I looked
at how much meat you get from a
grass-fed cow
that didn't cause deforestation that
didn't cause destruction of habitat for
other animals and if you eat a pound of
red meat every single day you'll kill
0.5 animals in the entire year and
that's it unless the cow steps on a frog
now if you eat your soy nugget crunchy
testosterone reducing flavored whatever
what you're doing is you're destroying
habitat bunnies Turtles ladybugs
I'm trying to name the cute ones mice
snakes lizards salamanders like we've
now gone outside the cute ones right
slugs okay those are gross but what they
do is they sterilize the land and
they're doing this and then they spray
glyphosate which is provably destroying
our entire ecosystem we just found out
that when you spray this nasty weed
killer around that kills bacteria in the
soil it also causes seizures and worms
at 300 times less than the allowable
levels this means that the foundation of
our soil which is worms and bacteria is
being completely sterilized so they can
grow corn and soy that then you eat in
your breakfast cereal that's full of
glyphosate that's also bad for you so
we've got to stop doing that stuff
entirely but you're saying that you want
that world and all the deaths and all
the habitat destruction news flash cows
are an amazing technology they walk
around on land and they eat plants that
we can't eat natural plants that are
self-sustaining and they turn them into
Dairy protein dairy fat and into meat
and protein and usable skins cows are
amazing and we need them to build our
soil I say this as a small Farmer on 32
Acres with three cows now in the freezer
but there were there
25 sheep and 25 pigs and a whole bunch
of chickens and I'm building soil
thickness and everywhere the animals go
green Lush amazing plants follow and in
the areas where there are new animals
small amounts of vegetation animals
create life in the soil soil creates
plants soil creates life and when you
choose a vegan diet you are voting
against the presence of any animals
in that agricultural land and that is
not okay
it's really interesting what is it in
manure that makes things grow like what
are we [__] out literally that is it
minerals is it yeah what is it well it
depends on what the animal ate you can't
count on the presence of minerals
because a lot of food doesn't have
minerals in it but what's always present
unless you're feeding antibiotics to
your cows is bacteria so the role of
ruminant animals like our sheep is to
walk around and they're putting
probiotics back in the soil and this is
why my sheep will [__] anywhere because
that's their job they go they eat some
of this plant they eat some of that
plant they mix them up they ferment them
and then they redeposit good healthy
bacteria that worms and bacteria eat in
the soil that makes for a rich thick
soil and you get the cycle of life my
pigs though and that's not their job
pigs clean up the land and pigs eat
scraps they don't poop everywhere they
poop in a corner of their space because
they're not there to put probiotics back
in the soil and when you become a farmer
when you live in nature the way I do you
start seeing this and it's abundantly
obvious why don't pigs why isn't sounds
ridiculous why isn't patient as useful
as cow [__] I I hire pneumonia as far as
I know and it's not that big [__] isn't
useful you just have to distribute it
this is why farmers keep pigs in a pen
Farmers keep pigs in a pen because
they're easier to eat also pigs are
destructive as all hell like they will
eat anything so they'll destroy your
crops and all that solo cows for some
crops but for me I have my garden area
which is a couple acres fenced off from
the sheet but the rest of the property
the Sheep keep it clean you have to mow
the lawn at least most of the time they
literally eat everything that needs
eating but they don't destroy it and if
you have other types of animals they'll
actually pull it up by the roots so you
can create this amazing ecosystem where
the Sheep are eating stuff that humans
couldn't and wouldn't eat they don't
kill other animals when they're in there
so what I want to do is I want to eat
the type of food that makes me feel
amazing it gives me the longest
longevity the best mental function the
type of of body that I want
and I want to minimize death and
environmental destruction and what I'm
doing is I'm pulling carbon out of the
air by building soil
I'm not displacing any animal in the
production of my food I'm actually
contributing to the existence of animals
and because I get to raise my own
animals I know they're treated with
respect I know that we were up at three
in the morning birthing the sheep or the
Lambs when it's that type of season from
the sheep and I know they were butchered
ethically you can do this if you talk to
a local farmer in your area they are
struggling and they want to sell you
meat directly you can buy eggs from
someone who has chickens most people can
do that right now and if you're just
starting out and you're in a big city
and that's not accessible if you go to
the Farmers Market at the end and you
talk to the farmers they'll probably
make you a deal because they get screwed
by a grocery distribution so what you
can do is you could become wealthy like
you and I have done and we could buy
Farms or you can support the people
around you do that that's what
communities do you build a community of
people who have like-minded values and
you support your farmers and they
support you and that's what I'm working
to do
Okay so
if I'm putting all the pieces together
the thing that I bump into is
what makes big egg work and the reason
that we're able to sustain the whatever
7.8 billion people that are on the
planet is because we've gotten really
efficient at growing cups crops that
keep people from starving to death of
taking as little space as possible to
grow the cows the pigs the chickens all
of that and it might be absolutely
Dreadful and hateful morally what
happens to the animals and what we're
doing to the soil but we're able to keep
people alive two
do things the way that you're describing
which sound way better
can we sustain the kind of population
that we have or do you think that we
need because there's two debates right
we need less people and then other
people like Elon Musk are like yo
population collapse is actually a far
bigger concern
well
I think we're
we're having a conversation where I can
be on both sides Elon is right my first
book was on fertility I read it 15 years
ago my wife was infertile at the time
and we restored her fertility and it's
called the better baby book and it's
resulted in thousands of people having
kids who were otherwise unable to just
by fixing their food and their
environment
so I know how bad our fertility
situation as a species is right now the
truth is hitting your career goals is
not easy you have to be willing to go
the extra mile to stand out and do hard
things better than anybody else but
there are 10 steps I want to take you
through that will 100x your efficiency
so you can crush your goals and get back
more time into your day you'll not only
get control of your time you'll learn
how to use that momentum to take on your
next big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode
human testosterone in men at least is
about 45 lower than it was 50 years ago
whoa yeah there's a lot of reasons seed
oils are one of them environmental
endocrine disruptors or another BPA from
your receipts and your water bottles
these are real things and they matter
so I'm not worried about population
continued growth I'm worried about our
ability to sustain our population I do
look at Japan and remember I've written
a book on anti-aging I've studied aging
populations around the planet and what
do they do
and
Japan's losing 600 000 people a year
because they're dying and there aren't
kids to replace them and it's not going
to stop there's entire cities now in the
in the countryside or towns that are
abandoned because there's no one to live
there
so are we gonna do that in the U.S yes
our replacement rate is lower
like we're not replacing our people our
birth rate is lower than our replacement
rate so
what does that mean yeah we have a
problem now how do you feed these people
there is a group of large companies who
say the only way to feed is to
centralize
look I'm a computer hacker by training
the stuff that I worked on was how do we
take centralization away from Computing
and decentralize it the newest wave of
that is the web 3 stuff that's happening
and what we know is that Distributing
things makes them highly resilient
highly fault tolerant and harder to
control
if one in ten families had chickens we
wouldn't need industrial egg laying
facilities it's not that hard to have
chickens and you don't have to have
roosters the noisy ones
if a few families had cows and sheep we
would have plenty of meat production for
the country the problem we have is that
we're slamming it all together
we're doing it unsustainably because
it's slammed together so we can control
it and people don't know this but most
of the pork producers and pork
processors and many of the chicken ones
in the US are owned by Chinese companies
who are leaving the unfiltered crap here
that's too concentrated to be put back
into the soil and they're taking the
meat and sending it overseas which is
also a waste of
well it's a waste of oil
so what I'd like to see is countries
learning how to grow their own food in a
distributed Manner and this comes down
to deregulating right now when I want to
take one of my cows that has been raised
carefully in most of the country I'm
going to have to ship it in Cruel
conditions 500 miles to a commercial
meat producer who's going to kill it
unethically in a state of stress and if
I don't do that I'm not allowed to sell
it that is not okay even my restaurant
here in Santa Monica I can't buy the
bacon I want to buy because it's
approved by The Regulators to sell that
kind of bacon to people's houses but not
for restaurant use so people don't know
this but big AG has put callers and
Shackles on small farmers with all sorts
of rules like this that are unnecessary
you wonder why food's expensive that's
why because it is cheap and easy to have
your own food growing in your backyard
and during food shortages in the past
even in the last hundred years people
would get a goat they would get chickens
because they'll eat everything and then
you can eat them and they'll give you
milk in the meantime and that's okay
it's very interesting uh I want to go
back to longevity and now while I have
drawn the following conclusions from
David Sinclair I want to be careful to
say that this does not necessarily
represent the accurate depiction of what
he's trying to convey which is what I
took yeah David and I are friends what
he said but basically if I understand
his punch line right what he's saying is
because I said the what you said about
eating the things that make me feel
great meat makes me feel great so I am
far closer to being a carnivore than I
am to being a vegetarian though I do
have a reasonable amount of vegetable
matter in my diet but
meat makes me feel awesome and every
time I've tried to transition to a much
higher plant-based diet I don't feel as
good and when I was pushing him on why
does it make me feel so awesome if it
isn't what he recommends for longevity
like what's the give and again my
interpretation of what he said was
basically it's a little bit of formesis
you're turning off mtor so you want to
give your body the impulse hey things
aren't necessarily so great so you need
to dial it back you need to slow your
metabolism down you need to not be you
know living as if it were a time of
abundance that you're you're sort of
God these are words he's going to hate
but like you're I was gonna say you're
hibernating or you're going into like a
famine state
so that you can when you get back into a
time of Plenty then you can start
building and all of that but in doing
that you give this you're in a hormetic
state which for people is a little bit
of bad to have a positive effect and so
because you're sort of dialing things
down you get the longevity so you might
not feel as good in any one moment but
you're far likelier to live for a long
time and I think I'm all about quoting
him when he says that just all the
studies show that high meat consumption
does not lead to a longer life
and so what's your take on that
I love David's work he's been on my show
and he's one of the first academics to
stand up and say we are extending human
life
this is a big risk as a researcher
because not so long ago they would pull
your tenure because you're crazy if you
said you could reverse biological Aging
in cells and he's right about mtor if
you go back to the bulletproof diet I
published that 10 years ago I think
I wrote a chapter about
stacking mtor so mtor is a compound that
causes the body to grow so if you want
muscles you have to have mtor and low
mtor equals muscle loss and lack of bone
density and even lessening of your
cognitive function
problem with inter is if it's high all
the time your cancer risk goes up cancer
risk goes up longevity goes down so we
have this conundrum you want mtor but
you don't want mtor so the strategy that
works for mtor is to suppress mtor
so that you live a long time and then
it's like a spring the more compressed
it is when you give it the signal to
spring back you get a spike in mtor so
the deal is low low low Spike low low
low Spike
now
that means you have to talk about what
suppresses mtor and then what spikes
mtor what suppresses mtor is three
different things one of them is
intermittent fasting
the other one is coffee
and the other one is exercise so if you
do what I've been teaching for a long
time you would intermittent fast in
other words sleep
that's often enough maybe sleep and Skip
breakfast you would work out at the end
of a fast and you'd have coffee during
fast so now you've maximally suppressed
mtor and then as soon as you finish your
exercise you eat some meat
because animal protein will raise mtor
but guess what raises him toward way
more than animal protein carbs carbs
so wait a minute if you want to live a
long time you should keep your mtor low
I don't believe that you should spike it
which means intermittent fasting is
probably all you need to do but you'd
have to be on a carb free diet that was
also low in animal protein so all you
would eat is what vegetarian protein
which is full of phytic acid which is
full of enzyme disruptors protein enzyme
disruptors and all the other well-known
problems with highly processed
plant-based proteins oh and you
shouldn't have the plant-based fats
because those are bad for you too the
omega-6 oils this is not a diet that
anyone would want to do it's akin to the
old anti-aging people who would say I'm
cold and thin all the time but I finally
got used to eating 70 of the calories I
actually need I hope I'm going to live
longer until the rat studies show that
it didn't work so if you want to live a
long time and feel amazing don't spike
your blood sugar very often I'm wearing
a continuous glucose monitor right here
on my on my stomach
that's from levels and when you eat
animal protein but you don't eat it all
day long you have a window around oh 2
P.M to 6 p.m where you consume your
animal protein you'll be low in tour the
rest of the time but you'll still have
muscle mass and you'll feel good and in
the morning if you're going to have
something have some fat because fat
doesn't change mtor at all and doesn't
change insulin at all
so you can be compatible with what David
Sinclair says but you have to be more
afraid of carbs than animal protein if
you're going to use mtor as you're
Guiding Light
what I would also add is we've all heard
of collagen I made collagen into a
billion dollar category right collagen
is high in glycine glycine is the amino
acid that balances out the two
problematic amino acids in animal
protein they're called
methionine and tryptophan so if you take
some collagen or some glycine
supplements with your meat during your
eating window you're likely going to
undo the damage from those amino acids
that raise their mtor
sounds really complex here's what it
looks like don't eat breakfast
exercise then eat some meat and maybe
some carbs if you like and don't eat bad
fats don't eat after the sun goes down
rinse and repeat that is the thing that
mechanistically given all we know from
David Sinclair's amazing and worthy
research I have done the vegan thing I
have tried the low protein thing it will
provably make you feel like crap which
will make you wish you didn't live
longer any of these interventions I talk
about for biohacking if it's a lot of
money and a lot of energy and a lot of
work to do it you're probably not going
to do it unless that payoff is Extreme
so what I've done over time is I've
become lazier and lazier so am I going
to go take a mineral supplement or can I
put it in my coffee like I drink my
coffee every day it has built-in trace
minerals that I'm not getting and even
if I went out and bought a bunch of
plants and had a big salad which I like
big salads but I have no idea what
minerals are in those things anyway so I
just make sure I get it enough to think
about it when it comes to things like
exercise
you mentioned that you think I'm looking
healthier I think I am too well one of
the biggest contributors to that is I'm
actually exercising less and I didn't
exercise that much before I'm doing the
stuff from upgrade Labs why are you
exercising less because I like
efficiency look if I could sleep none at
all and I could exercise none at all
I would have so much more time to do fun
stuff right but of course I'm sleeping
I'm getting high efficiency sleep I
sleep six and a half hours a night
and with exercise and with every other
environmental input we're figuring out
that there's a Code or a signal that
makes the body adapt more rapidly
and this is akin to what Dr Sinclair is
talking about there okay what's the
signal it's mtor well it turns out for
exercise we can put muscle on three to
five times faster than picking up rocks
we can do cardio 10 to 12 times more
effectively than the spin class or going
for a run the stuff that we were told
was healthy it turns out it's mostly a
waste of time
so I've been studying for the last eight
years at upgrade Labs how to do these
things and how to make it so I can roll
it out to everyone and upgrade Labs is
now franchising across North America US
and Canada so these will be opening in
every city where you can come in and in
the hour you would have just sweated a
little bit and hoped that flopping the
weights around did something we can
provably do your VO2 max put on muscle
encourage resilience we actually train
your system to be more resilient and do
a bunch of other stuff that doesn't even
fall in the category of exercise but it
sends a metabolic signal into your body
to make you healthier so let's start
taking those one at a time so how are
you getting more efficient at
weightlifting well your muscles are
expecting gravity
and gravity has certain characteristics
we evolved for billions of years in it
if you give your muscles a signal that
takes gravity out of the signal they go
oh my God I'm gonna have to adapt to
something new so they rapidly adapt by
growing and getting stronger and by
removing gravity yeah gravity
accelerates at 9.8 meters per second
squared it's a fixed constant on Earth
that means that if I pick up this coffee
cup and I slowly drop it like that it
weighs more predictably the more I I'm
dropping it and this is all invisible to
us but your body's doing all the
calculations well what if
when I picked the cup up it wanted to
fall a lot more than 9.8 meters per
second isn't that just a heavier weight
except it accelerates but now it doesn't
want to accelerate okay it slowly moves
down inevitably I cannot stop it from
dropping no matter how hard I push but
it doesn't accelerate ever right the
body's like what is going on here
it turns out your muscles will not
activate fully because they're afraid of
gravity we can teach your muscles in
this one environment there is no gravity
so you can turn on all the way and in I
have a book that's coming out in March
if there wasn't gravity wouldn't things
be weightless
not if someone's pulling on something so
if there's isn't that just more gravity
it's not gravity what gravity does
gravity accelerates over time but if I
take my finger here and I just move it
at a constant speed
it doesn't accelerate ever but what
gravity do is I start moving in the more
it moves the faster it goes that fact
that gravity accelerates over time your
body is adapted to that in a crazy way
we're using AI algorithms to give your
body a signal that says I have no idea
what I'm doing but I have to get
stronger okay so hold on it's awesome
it's interesting I this is the first
time I'm being exposed to this idea so
I'm gonna have to work through this okay
so for anybody following along at home
there's a thing called terminal velocity
terminal velocity is when you reach
maximum gravity is yanking you down most
things don't reach terminal velocity
because they're not far enough to fall
now ironically my entire life I've never
thought of that as gravity accelerating
over time but I guess effectively it is
I've never thought about why you don't
immediately hit terminal velocity the
second you step off something that's
utterly [__] fascinating do you know
how on Earth is that not true I actually
don't know that you don't hit terminal
Voss yeah why why isn't everything
falling at terminal velocity at all
times it's because gravity is measured
in meters per second squared or meters
per second per second so every second of
time he's been falling wise more
acceleration I don't understand oh that
probably goes back to Newtonian motion
but terminal velocity talk about things
you don't know you don't know wow okay
so terminal velocity is a fun function
of air resistance there is no terminal
velocity if you are in space in a full
vacuum and you have an unlimited amount
of time to fall you'll keep accelerating
accelerating accelerating accelerating
and there's probably some kind of like
getting close to the speed of light
thing I don't know if that's an advanced
physics question yeah terminal velocity
sure about that velocity of a feather
and terminal velocity of a lead brick
which one's in a vacuum there'd be no
difference in a vacuum there'd be no
difference right so then terminal
velocity they'll keep accelerating of
course it's just a function of time we
usually hit something after a certain
amount of time in Space the big problem
we have is that we need to be able to
continue accelerating right and once you
stop accelerating then you just keep
moving at that speed forever but if you
want to get going faster and faster and
faster you have to have more and more
fuel right now anyway
okay this continues to get interesting
uh so this machine
is pulling down at a constant well I
guess I'm thinking it's like a winch
it's easy you're standing in front of a
pickup truck the pickup truck has a
winch it can pick up a car
you're gonna do a curl against the winch
yeah you know the truck's going to win
right but now your body understands you
know what when I wobble it doesn't
accelerate it I don't feel any gravity
in there I'm only feeling the pull of
the winch which is constant this is a
new signal to us we've never had the
signal is it all negative
um Force you can do you can you can pull
it back we just let the winch out at the
right speed Okay so
is there any difference in muscle
formation whether we're doing concentric
or eccentric there absolutely is it's so
cool there's a whole chapter in my book
that's coming out in in a few months
it's in March of next year but yeah
there is a difference and it turns out
that you put more muscle on during The
Eccentric part of it so when you pull up
you don't put on as much muscle as when
you're slowly releasing but when you're
slowly releasing against a dumbbell
Against Gravity there's going to be some
of this that's not just from your muscle
shaking it's because when you wobble a
little bit the dumbbell got heavier
we're taking all that out and so now the
question is what is the signal to put on
muscle the fastest how fast do I have to
move up against what force and how does
the force modify as I'm at different
places here and it there's a whole
universe of signals in there that tells
the body to change way more rapidly than
you would imagine and from a cardio
perspective you don't even have to sweat
and you get huge benefits in five
minutes
of exercise and most of that five
minutes you're stripping out gravity is
how we get the muscles to grow faster
what are we doing on the cardio side
one of the the big things that I'm
working with at upgrade Labs is this
thing called slope of the curve biology
which sounds nerdy but it's not that bad
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a 10
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
all right I've just released a class
from Impact Theory university called how
to build Ironclad discipline that
teaches you the process of building
yourself up in this area area so that
you can push yourself to do the hard
things the greatness is going to require
of you right click the link on the
screen register for this class right now
and let's get to work I will see you
inside this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
it's that your body wants to adapt this
hormetic stress but the way the body
measures whether it adapted or not is
how quickly
was it stressed and very importantly how
quickly could you return to an
unstressed state so the healthiest
strongest of us we can handle it and
then we're at peace and instead what
we've told ourselves is the harder I
work for longer the better it is so we
spend all this time going for a run
we're sweating for 45 minutes or an hour
and we think that's good because we
suffered and suffering makes you a good
person but what the body listened to was
you ran away from the tiger and then you
laid on your back and you rested which
is the very beginning version of this
which is provably better than
intermittent training high intensity
interval training where you basically
run for a minute and then walk for a
minute well why would laying on your
back work better than walking for a
minute it's because the faster you
return to Baseline the more the body
takes the signal in so what we're doing
is we're measuring your heart rate we're
measuring the stress on your body and
adapting the resistance of in this case
a bike to make sure that it matches what
your body's capable of
in order for you to be the strongest
person possible you want to stress your
system right up to the edge where it's
dysregulated
but not dysregulated because if we
disregulate your system it's going to
take you a couple days to recover so we
bring you right up to the very edge and
then bring you right back down
and this provably works better but you
can't do it without Tac
since I am angry that I spent 18 months
of my life
six days a week an hour and a half a day
going to the gym halfway tough cardio to
try and lose 100 pounds of fat and it
did not work in fact I gave myself an
autoimmune condition and I over trained
and raised my cortisol
I still had a 46 inch waist when I was
done that was a lie that was the same as
the doctor telling you to smoke for your
health
it was this a lie or did they just not
know oh it's a good that's a good point
in fact
I believe someone somewhere probably
knew
but yes it could have just been a
mistake
okay it was a financially beneficial
mistake for someone else but to be
really clear and I want to say this if
you say someone is lying it means that
you can read their mind and you know
their thoughts or you have direct
evidence of it versus that they are
wrong so to correct myself they were
wrong right
okay so that is really intriguing so
that's something
um I've not heard so I'd heard about
eccentric being bigger of a muscle
builder than the concentric motion which
always struck me as weird but cool I'm
certainly willing to believe it
um but I had not heard that about rapid
getting back to
um calm I'm not sure what this is
original material I don't think that
there's anyone who's written about that
other than end mechanisms with stress
resistance but what we've seen at
upgrade Labs over eight years of using
Tech to make people more resilient
it's that wow if we do it that way
people change dramatically what data
points is the machine or the AI reading
it depends on which intervention we've
got
about eight different interventions so
it depends what we're doing but if we're
doing neurofeedback and I've got a ton
of data from my neurofeedback company
about that that's a part of upgrade Labs
now as well where you can actually train
your brain same thing you bring it to
the edge bring it back so that's
basically brain stuff from a stress
resilience when we're doing resilience
training it's heart rate variability
from cardio we're looking at heart rate
which is a marker for respiration and
for muscle we're looking at the slope of
the curve of muscle strength
so it's a lot of data the overall
arching data to monitor human
performance at upgrade Labs is based on
the electrical performance of your cells
so when you come in you stand on a
device that lets us measure how good
your cells are at resisting electricity
or storing electricity which tells us
are you hydrated are you dehydrated
where's the fat in your body where's
your skeletal muscle mass in the body
and it's amazing with thousands and
thousands of data points we have that
and then we tell you like a prescription
of which of the different Technologies
to do to reach your gold fastest I just
want to give everyone their time back
most people want to live a long time
are willing to spend 50 bucks a month or
200 a month whatever they can come up
with as long as it works and what we do
is we buy a membership at a health club
and then we just don't go but we know
that by having it we're a good person
what I want to do is say if you're
willing to gift me with one hour of your
time let's get it all out of the way for
the week maybe you'll come in twice this
week because you feel so much better but
that's it I don't want more time more is
not better with the cardio interventions
I'm doing if you do the five minutes of
mostly moving really slowly doing six
minutes does not improve your
performance at all doing 10 minutes is
zero benefit more or you could tell
yourself you're doing well and you could
sweat and you love that person in the
front of the class yelling at you and
sloshing water in her face I just don't
want to spend my life doing that what's
the difference between what you're
helping people optimize for and like
ultra high performance like an Olympic
Athlete Olympic athletes and pro
athletes are are by definition
biohackers and a lot of them follow my
stuff what they're looking at though is
a day that involves training and a huge
amount of recovery what you and I are
looking at is not that we might train
but then we go about our life that is
not about eating properly getting extra
rest getting a massage going to the
sauna there's an upper limit to the
amount of time that most people have to
improve themselves what that means is
that we have a moral obligation to get
that done and still have time to be a
householder to take care of your family
to do your job to take care of other
aspects of your community and if you
spend all your time better that's what
I'm trying to figure out so an Olympic
Athlete is going to train their [__]
face off so are they just wrong and they
should be doing because like when you
said you're mostly moving slow I'm like
I don't see how an Olympic Athlete does
mostly moving slow and still sets the
100 meter damage it would depend on what
you're training for right so a sprinter
is training for something very different
than cardiovascular performance among
they don't even need that endurance
right but what's happening now is
endurance trainers have figured out that
cranking out the miles actually doesn't
work very well so they're mostly doing
something called zone two training which
is fascinating and this is another one
of those biohacking innovations that
says if you spend about an hour and a
half to two hours a week at a very
narrow and specific range of heart rate
your mitochondria will burn fat and it's
metabolically awesome but if you go a
little bit faster or a little bit slower
it doesn't work so you have to have a
heart rate monitor and you have to go at
a certain speed and if you do that kind
of training you can do a lot less of The
Chronic cardio so we're seeing a new
generation of endurance athletes who are
actually able to do it for a lot longer
because they've learned that training
less gives them more results
so we used to just say well if some is
good more is better it's one of the
basic things our brains do because we're
lazy we're not choosing to be lazy our
body wants to not waste energy even on
thinking so something good more better
something bad none is good the reality
is not that so let's use Computing let's
use our vast knowledge as a species to
actually decide how much of what gives
you the most and be a little bit selfish
about things and when you do that you
realize you can have hours every week
that you don't have to do on unpleasant
tasks and because you did it right you
feel good all the rest of the time I've
spent six months with the electrodes
glued on my head at 40 years of Zen
training my brain so I could turn off
all the notifications and bad voices in
my head I've
lost 100 pounds I try all sorts of crazy
stuff a lot of it's not worth it and my
job is to find the stuff that has the
most value for the most people and then
get it everywhere so that we can free
ourselves of drudgery that doesn't even
produce good results
what are you doing with the electrodes
on your brain what are I'm assuming it's
detecting certain brainwave patterns
getting biofeedback based on that
so to what end are there certain states
that you want to be able to click in and
out of
40 Years of Zen it we had to build new
hardware and software that reads
electrical signals from the surface of
your your goal basically the skin on
your head which tells you what's going
on inside the brain and there's a whole
bunch of different math you can do when
you're looking at brain waves to figure
out what the heck is going on in there
and then to quickly show the brain what
it's doing so you can change it and the
results are incredible because we're
mixing three different types of feedback
in a way that hasn't been done before so
you sit there at an upgrade Labs we've
got the training or you go to the full
facility in Seattle which is the 40
Years of Zen facility we're gluing four
electrodes on here and we're validating
results with a clinical grade 24
electrode 3D printed cap sort of thing
and based on that you're actually doing
meditations that have a lot of
similarity to ancient ones but they're
just tweaked to be efficient because you
have the equivalent of a lie detector on
your head so you can say all right I'm
going to go to this state I'm going to
do this specific thing and you're going
to convince yourself that you did it
when you didn't because your brain is
that lazy so you can say I'm going to
forgive my ex-girlfriend
and you tell yourself you did but you
didn't well the computer's going to tell
you hey Bozo
you're not done right and it's a little
uncomfortable but when you do that you
stop worrying for the rest of your life
about whatever that situation was and
that's how you go through and do this
reset process that turns off all these
alerts it's similar to some of the
States you get from plant-based
medicines
um like psychedelics people have similar
types of experiences but there's no
drugs required it's just you being able
to see what's going on inside your brain
so it's very very potent stuff
again though it depends what you're
training there are times when after
you've done some of this work which is
the primary amazing relaxation the state
of of Lucidity or state of insight those
are different things you actually have
different settings on the machine to do
that
there's other things you can do though
to increase neuron firing speed which is
a different kind of training at a very
different frequency with different math
behind it this is you mean I can make my
neurons fire faster yeah you can
increase voltage in your brain you can
train your brain to have a hotter spark
if that's what you need
and each brain is very unique so the
question is what do we do what we're
doing is showing you what's going on and
then we may be teaching you
how to do a forgiveness technique how to
do a specific meditation technique so
perfectly because the computer is
guiding you or we may be just showing
your brain some sounds and lights where
it'll reprogram itself
to run faster if that's what your brain
needs so it is it's a whole new thing we
used to have to just go meditating caves
all of our history of meditation is
we'll just meditate for your lifetime
write down what you learned to give it
to the next guy and we'll just do that
for a long time
the amount of data we can get it's
amazing I think we've got nine patents
underway at 40 years of Zen and we're
rolling that Hardware out to all over
the country inside upgrade Labs because
most people don't have time to meditate
and they don't know how to meditate even
if they have time breath work is awesome
you should do your breath work how many
listeners right now wake up every
morning and do their breath work
tiny amount so I like how do I get 40
Years of meditation done in a week I
want that I'm just profoundly lazy like
I just want to eat more bacon and
chocolate and live forever and not have
to do a bunch of hard work in order to
have the body in mind I want and I'm
building that
yeah so there is a profound amount of
figuring out what works and what doesn't
so going back to the mind in a
forgiveness technique what is it is
there's a detectable brain state that
you get into and you've actually let go
of something and you can just sort of
mimic that feeling you're not mimicking
the feeling you're actually creating the
state and you're doing it yourself so
the computer's just saying you're not
there you haven't done it keep going and
so you may never get to that state but
when you get to that state it what
recognizes it it recognizes it and it
tells you when you're getting closer and
closer and is that based on just a ton
of data where it's seen enough people
that it recognizes a certain State
because the the AI would have to have a
model that says okay this is what I'm
aiming at so when you guys are taking in
all of this data how how did you
pinpoint okay this is real forgiveness
this is what pseudo-forgiveness looks
like so on and so forth we didn't just
have to do it there's well-known
meditative forgiveness techniques and
they feel a certain way so you can take
someone who knows the technique you can
look at their brain is that what you
guys did like you had monkeys come in
we've done some of that and fortunately
since about 1992 people have been having
monks come in and do this and there's
hundreds of different states and I've
had monks and other very highly
um just say highly on the path of
Enlightenment kind of people come in how
does a computer capture a brain wave so
I know what an earthquake looks like I
know what musical notes look like what
does a brain wave look like so you've
seen maybe if someone's measuring a
battery with a little Vol meter right
yeah so it turns on and turns off so
when we're measuring a brain wage there
are changes in electrical potential
coming off the brain so it's sort of
like a sine wave yeah it's exactly a
sine wave and so just imagine like if we
were humming or something like um
somehow you know you can see that
there's a wave in there right your brain
is doing the same thing but it's in
electricity and what we can do is we can
say you know what if you close your eyes
anyone listening can do this and the
darker of the room is better or we even
have special glasses that you use when
you're at 40 years and to help you
maintain the state better like there's a
lot of environmental things but close
your eyes and then put your attention
right here in the middle of your breath
when you do that you're in a high state
of alpha automatically and Alpha is this
brain say that everyone talks about it's
some kind of special thing Alpha barely
means anything it's a range of about
four Hertz inside this range of your
brain waves that go from zero up to at
least 100 Hertz so it's just like I
don't know something in there but it
turns out you can have Alpha here and
Delta here so what oh yeah your brain is
not one thing it has all sorts of
different little nodes think of it like
an orchestra so you can be playing tuba
over here in snare drums over here and
what we're doing is we're doing complex
math in real time actually in the cloud
for some of this
and then we're showing your brain how to
conduct its Orchestra more effectively
how do you show it with sound usually
and sometimes with light okay this is
really [__] interesting so and what I
just wrote was is there a way to match
waves so I read a headline I didn't read
the article so forgive me whoever wrote
it if I'm getting this wrong but the
headline was saying that if you're
playing video games with somebody even
if you're not in the same space and this
matters to me because I play with my
wife and my sister on a fire team and
there are just times where you sync up
and it's like you can just you know
where everybody's going and it's awesome
uh and it said that basically people
that are playing uh games together their
brain patterns will sync up and so it
was like I didn't read the article so I
don't know exactly what they meant by
that but if that really is true that
means that there's something that we're
able to detect that allows us to get in
sync which should mean that I can play
something back to you whether it's sound
light
who knows that allows you to then sync
up with that there's some assumptions in
there that are not proven about the idea
that we could detect what that is
we've looked at the brain waves of
people doing improvisational Jazz and
they do sync up in strange ways teams
will sync up like that the question is
will they sync up over distance and the
answer is yes you will sync up with
someone even across the continent and
it's likely if you have some sort of
connected feedback it can be a connected
feedback yeah even if you don't there
are people who are capable of that
explain that but you can look at all of
Jojo spenzo's work and there's dozens of
other people who've tried to disprove it
over time so you can be quantumly
connected with someone in your brain
waves or even your heart rate
variability can sink
over very vast distances in a way that's
a bit scary to be honest you're gonna
have to give me examples because that
sounds untrue well one easy to measure
example is that when you walk into a
stall with a horse before you touch the
horse from 10 feet away yep the horses
interbeat spacing of its heartbeat will
change to match yours
instantaneously okay so how's it
happening what's the signal
I don't know but given that we're so
close I could buy that there's some
detectable something
where it starts to get weird is when the
person is very far away and I don't like
even just deciphering which of the 7.9
billion people to get in sync with
There's Something Fishy going on they're
in the horse case there's likely a
magnetic thing going on around your
heart there's a Taurus or like a Halo
shaped field we can measure this with
physics detection equipment this is not
debatable there's an electrical thing
going on in the heart it creates a
magnetic field we also know from physics
that magnetic fields and electrical
Fields continue
infinitely throughout the Universe they
just drop at a cube of the distance so
they get weaker and weaker over time so
you would have to prove to me that your
body does not have the ability to
recognize a specific magnetic field from
across the planet if it's even magnetic
which it probably isn't it's probably
based on Quantum resonance
we know and this is not the quantum Wu
like look I have a Quantum whistle
Quantum biology phds I mentioned earlier
enzymes in your body and how you need
minerals to make them well what I didn't
mention is that we're understanding now
that Quantum tunneling is happening when
you make ATP Quantum tunneling is
happening within microtubules in your
brain and that our bodies are absolutely
Quantum biology based and this is the
Hardcore physics giant Labs with liquid
helium kind of science not the you know
I shaved my head and went to Tibet which
yes I did do
so what's going on there well we know
that two objects can become Quantum
entangled at any distance and when that
happens when two things are quantum
entangled one of them can change and the
other one will instantaneously change
even on the other side of the universe
yeah but the uh so God this is
definitely outside of what I know well
but I know enough headlines to be
dangerous so like in Quantum Computing
the thing that they're struggling with
is how do you Quantum entangle things
and keep complex things entangled so
while I will definitely agree again
knowing that this is well beyond what I
really understand
that that seems like a foregone
conclusion if entangling them is the
part that we don't understand my
question is
what is it that's entangling them in the
first place is it that we're consciously
deciding I want to sync with that person
is there some sort of force Beyond us
that Quantum entangles us for reasons we
don't understand
I would say that we don't know the
answer to it but there can be an effect
when you don't know why there's in fact
no doubt most of science especially
medicine we just tell ourselves a reason
that's totally bogus and then we believe
it to be true
so the most obvious answer that I and
others would propose as a hypothesis to
test is that it's actually Consciousness
itself that's created in the quantum
entangling and this is based on
information field Theory which has some
pretty good science to back it up but
what we do know is that this connection
between people
is provable and it is thousands of times
stronger if the people meditate or have
a Consciousness practice
okay so I'm not sure what the right
thread to pull is so I'm going to try
one that's probably the most dangerous
thread to pull on how are we improving
that they are quantumly entangled we
know that we run on Quantum biology but
right now we don't have the ability to
prove that let's say that you and I are
playing a video game we're in different
rooms in the video game and we're across
the continent from each other and there
is a proposed some kind of connection
and somehow we're playing like this and
we don't know what it is but it feels
good
that makes sense to me though because we
both have over the Internet the games
are connected so I'm seeing the same
thing that you're seeing at the same
time we're seeing different things at
slightly different times actually
because there's lag yes well then let's
ask the obvious question if we are uh
seeing things at slightly different
times there's some latency there why
would we get an exact sync it seems more
sensible that would be in sync with the
thing that we're interacting with than
in sync with the thing that's in sync
with the thing that we're interacting
with well maybe the answer is just focus
and I'm not saying I know the answer but
what I do know is that Minds that are
trained to powerfully focus on something
especially together create something and
I don't know what it is there's an
interesting book by Lynn McTaggart who's
a friend it's called the field and what
you're going to find out especially from
Lynn's work is when you get eight people
focused on the same thing it creates a
field one of those information fields
and she has dozens and thousands of
examples including some with really good
controls where some something creepy is
happening
in the field
information fields are tied with
Consciousness and it's an area of math
actually and physics they're looking at
and there's stuff we don't know about
reality the thing that's scary is you
can knock on the wooden table right here
it's almost entirely not there
it's empty spaced we just don't perceive
the empty space so we get into weird
questions of Consciousness and the
nature of reality very quickly but no
one on earth can tell you why your hand
doesn't pass through the table given
that the table is provably just empty
space 99.999
here's why your hand doesn't pass
through the space at a Quantum level yes
there are massive gaps but as you scale
things up then it becomes the odds of
um all of your
particles is probably the right word to
use lining up perfectly with all of the
particles that aren't there also it is
virtually zero just to finish that
sentence and then given that quantum
theory is all about probability it is in
fact possible that all of your
particles happen to at that exact moment
have a probability of passing through it
even though it's a solid object but
again the odds of that are vanishingly
slim now there is if Infinity is really
the infinity that we think it is there
probably is a universe where everything
is identical
exactly to this except as you went to
knock on the third knock your hand
actually passed through the table so
somewhere there is a guy who just a
version of you that just did that and
it's like oh my God see but it would be
so vanishingly slim
so I met a guy uh that is a
astrophysicist who is far smarter than I
will ever be who described it to me this
way he said the reason that
even though when you're dealing at the
quantum level you're talking about
probabilities what you see doesn't seem
to account for all of those
probabilities and how could that be true
and his answer was because this simply
just like anything it's it's a
distribution you're going to experience
things in the most probable State and so
the most probable state is that when you
knock it's there even though as you
drill into the quantum level and you
understand quantum mechanics and you
know that there are some non-trivial
chance that things just pass through and
that they have a superposition or
whatever we are well outside of what I
would want to be teaching a class on but
that the the universe that we see as
like the typical Universe even though it
seems to violate some of the quantum
rules is simply because it's the most
probable of the quantum States so I was
like that is very simple and very
straightforward and makes a lot of sense
now again this is beyond what I truly
understand but yeah that makes sense to
me there's one little thing in there
though a big part of quantum anything is
the observer effect
so what's causing a probability to
collapse into a reality is something has
to observe it and in my work you are not
the Observer you simply can't be the
Observer the reason is that when
something happens in the world around
you
if you have an average brain about a
third of a second later your brain gets
its first electrical wiggling the first
signal at all so there's someone in your
body and if you're young or you have a
high performance hacked brain like mine
you're around 240 milliseconds that's
the fastest and maybe a Formula One
driver I want to measure her but like
Danica Patrick might be at 210 or maybe
she was at her prime as a driver these
people are very very fast at their
brains perceiving reality but during
that quarter of a second Gap
who's in charge well it turns out
there's an ancient network of
environmental sensors that each has its
own tiny bit of Consciousness they're
called mitochondria they're ancient
bacteria they observe in real time and
react in real time and then you take
credit for it a quarter to a third of a
second later so there's still an
observer of the hand on the table
but why so Consciousness is one of those
questions that I can't decide if I find
it completely uninteresting or if it's
the most interesting thing ever but for
a second I'm going to pretend I find it
the most interesting thing ever uh why
on Earth would Consciousness localize to
the mitochondria why that
bacteria and not something else they're
just the ones that are the first
Observers everyone else has already
observed so what you have is you have a
programmable array throughout your body
of billions and billions of mitochondria
way more than there are cells in your
body they're environmental sensors their
electrical plants and they're building
factories that can make sex hormones
they can make inflammatory molecules
they can fold proteins they can do all
kinds of cool stuff they're not just the
power plants of the cells so what's
going on here is you have an array like
like an antenna array of all these
things they are electrically sensitive
they are magnetically sensitive they are
light sensitive and they're sitting
there trying to figure out what the hell
to do in unison with each other before
you can pay attention and they don't
even know that you're in there and what
you're doing with meditation what you're
doing with all of the biohacking stuff
that changes the environment around you
and inside of you to have control of
your biology
that's all programming your array of
those little Consciousness generators to
pay attention to stuff so that they can
find it and the things that get really
interesting is there's a very very
strong case that what you and I are
seeing with this table and everything
around us is a very tiny drop reality
because if we had a life-size map of Los
Angeles right now it would be useless
right because it wouldn't be a map
anymore you'd have to go there what we
see with our eyes we hear with our ears
is a tiny tiny little representation of
what's really going on in the world
around us
that is for sure so I find it utterly
fascinating the idea of an umvelt right
you're only going to perceive that which
you have a sensor to perceive so your
eyes see a narrow band of light in fact
God I used to know the exact number but
it's something like
.0035 percent
of the electromagnetic spectrum is
visible to our eyes
that is a vanishingly small number
vanishingly small and so to have a sense
that oh this is everything that there is
that for sure we're definitely not
perceiving the real world do you know
Donald Hoffman that's his whole thing
right the case against reality yeah that
you you not only are not perceiving
reality but the way that Evolution works
you would never actually perceive
reality because it's not the thing
that's going to help you be survival of
the fittest exactly that's that's what I
was relying on is his work because it's
that profound so you can't sense reality
and so you and I say well we don't know
the mechanism for this what I do as a
biohacker is I look for the corner cases
things where stuff happens that's not
supposed to happen and then what do we
learn from those and you can do crazy
stuff there's a a ski instructor turned
physicist named Nasim harming who's been
on my show I don't know if he's been on
yours he runs a resonance Academy
and he has math that's four percent
better than What's called the standard
model of physics at predicting reality
how did he do it you talk to him it's
all about quantum entanglement and
resonance and sine waves and things like
that fascinating interview but it's all
about Consciousness but the fact of the
matter is the end of the day his math
works better than the stuff we use to
put stuff on Mars right now and he's
working on getting it out there so we
have
stuff going on how did that happen and
in the case of putting your hand through
the table
there are stories of a saint named
milarepa and people go to caves where he
learned to do this where there's all
these handprints not painted on the wall
but actually melted into the wall and he
would do it on demand when people would
ask him to do it to show people that you
can change your interface on reality I
want that to be true I love it you can't
imagine somebody more excited about all
of this stuff being true than me Wim Hof
proves that there are things that can be
studied and shown to actually exist so
when I hear about somebody like that I'm
like word like put them in a laboratory
setting like Wim was willing to do so
that we can see if this is real because
if it is then other people can start to
do it and we can really get to
interesting places what I fear is either
that person is
um not connected to reality oh there's
lots of crazy people and lots of con
artists out there let's face it correct
so I
I worry very much about that because to
your point what I care about is does
your mental model allow you to more
accurately predict the outcome of your
actions if it does amazing if your math
is four percent better at getting a uh
probe onto Mars I want to know about it
but most people aren't going to be able
to replicate their findings and I don't
know why it
it winds me up but when typically when
people use quantum to mean magical bad I
want to punch through something it's so
stupid when when you do that and I know
plenty of wizard level Advanced
meditation people who've spent 20 30
years on the practice who've handed it
down from lineages these people can do
stuff that is weird and give me the
weirdest thing you've witnessed oh
dozens of times there are people you can
tell them the name of someone and
they'll tell you all about them in a way
that is creepy like how do they know
this do you know cold reading these are
not cold readers some of these people I
know pretty well these are people like
lived in the jungle and did Ayahuasca
every day for a long time which I don't
think is a good idea for most of us but
like these are these are weird people
not forgive my skepticism I totally am
down with sketches I love skepticism I
haven't heard of Banacek uh I've heard
of benichek oh such a [__]
interesting guy shout out to banachek so
he is a mentalist so he was one of the
guys I think back in the 70s was it the
amazing Randy or something was telling
people hey this stuff is fake nobody
would believe him so he set this whole
thing up with these two one of them was
really young like 19 years old I can't
remember if they had them bending spoons
or whatever but they had them put on
some demonstrations yeah something like
that yes I think that might be correct
and I forget exactly what they were
having him do but it was banachek before
he took the stage name was one of the
kids doing it and people were like this
is real oh my God like he really can
whatever Ben spoons read minds whatever
and of course he can't it's all a stage
show but it he's he was so young and so
convincing that people were like no this
is real there's no way you could be
faking it and he's like yes I'm faking
it so knowing how compelling those guys
are and that they're not mean or evil
they're just you know the tricksters
Among Us the world is full of tricksters
yeah so here here's the question
um I take an agnostic stance on on most
things where I haven't seen that what's
the evidence sort of things I do not
believe as I used to believe that I have
to know the mechanism of action for
something to be happening because that
is actually a limiting thing because
here's the deal most mechanisms of
action that we have proposed and
believed fervently in throughout history
were actually wrong if you got diagnosed
with terminal cancer would you get chemo
I would actually first look at what kind
of cancer I had I'd have it sequenced
and then I would get something from a
guy named Ralph Moss who runs
cancerdecisions.com and he goes through
and looks at every type of cancer every
alternative therapy every chemotherapy
and every other therapy and stack ranks
them against evidence for whether
they're going to work for you
and based on that I might get chemo but
probably not because chemo has a lot of
downside and I would start doing other
stuff that would work and see if the
cancer shrunk and if so I'd keep doing
that and if not I'd do chemo if it was
the last resort okay but it's not like
you would run to the guy that can melt
his hand through the rock now okay no
not at all and people who are biased
either for or against big Pharma have a
problem you want to be without bias so
what I'm looking for is is there an
effect is especially in effect that's
reported in multiple cultures over
hundreds of years all over the planet
who didn't know each other well gee I
don't know maybe they're all idiots or
maybe we don't know in a fact so the
most interesting things
um well that whole almost every culture
you can name has people who I don't call
them psychic mind readers whatever you
want to do it they weren't all trained
to do The Mentalist game I am so
interested
in making sure that the things that I
believe allow me to better predict the
outcome of my actions that I don't just
oh like you say that this thing is true
but you can't show or it's not
verifiable or whatever that's when I get
skeptical either of their intentions or
their explanation just that I I'm not
convinced that their interpretation of
said bizarre thing is an accurate
interpretation not that said bizarre
thing isn't a bizarre thing not that
it's not real like every time I think I
understand how something is done take
nutrition oh yeah as you will know we
all think we understand and then you the
the quote that sums up my approach to
life is as the island of my knowledge
grows so does the shore of my ignorance
it's like no matter how much I know it
just shows me how much I don't know and
that what I don't know is so vast
compared to the things that I do know
so it matters to me because if you have
a frame of reference that makes accurate
predictions your life will be amazing if
you have a frame of reference that makes
deranged and I don't mean deranged like
crazy I mean is it it is off it is
deranged and if you have one that makes
poor predictions then you will seem to
be trapped by things outside your
control but in reality or not here's
what's going on I talked about those
mitochondria that ancient Network they
follow basic operating system things
that only a bacteria can do small dumb
and fast
and remember they're doing it before you
can be aware of reality they run four
things and they do it infinite numbers
of times which matches the book you just
talked about Stephen Wolfram wrote
another book called A New Kind of math
that shows very simple things replicated
infinite numbers of times equals flowers
and spiral shells and all these amazing
organic forms are from small rules
repeated so what's going on is your
bacteria individually or throughout the
system are programmed with four words in
order and these are at the very core of
my work the first one is fear you run
away from kill or hide from anything
that might be scary they are recognizing
scary as a network before you get to
pick and then number two eat everything
and you eat everything because famines
have killed our ancestors forever number
three in order is also an f word so we
have fear we have food that all life has
to do to stay around forever you know
the f word fertility right okay so we've
got that and the fourth one is friend
which is make a network with everyone
else and support your own meat bag and
support other meat bags like you in
other words form a community Forum
friends support your species and support
the other ecosystem you're in this is
what all life does whether you're a
jellyfish or a human or a tree you
always follow these rules in tiny tiny
very very fast very dumb compute nodes
and you do that enough times and you
program that system through the course
of your life especially when you're
young even when you're in the womb for
what kind of world to expect and if you
grow up in poverty with violence with
abuse your antenna array is programmed
to look for and expect those things
so it's not about programming your mind
as much as it is about programming your
body and then your mind
because you can fix the mind but if the
body is still in a state of poverty and
Terror it won't do that and the reason I
do the work I do in the order I do is
that when you upgrade your biology so it
works better you have a better system
for detecting reality around you and
based on that
you have more energy and when you have
more energy that energy lets you go into
personal development and reprogram your
mind so when you take someone from a
background of abuse and poverty
and you get their cells working again
and then you reprogram the threat
detection system the poverty and the
famine detection system
and the love system and the community
system you get a whole complete trauma
healed human you can do this faster
through biohacking than anything else
I've invented that's why neurofeedback
matters that's why getting nutrients
into the cells matter but if you have a
body that can't detect reality because
it's too poisoned by the environment and
too depleted in minerals and in proteins
and even in energy no wonder you can't
respond the way you want to respond no
wonder you don't get the results you
want because you don't have the energy
to bring it and it is not fair it's not
how it's supposed to be and so many
people have huge amounts of trauma and
don't know it including the most
successful people on earth I have the
largest database of high performance
brains
at high resolution scan of anyone on the
planet according to my neuroscientist
Partners at University of Victoria This
is 40 Years of Zen you know many people
who are billionaires come through my
program and have to work on Trauma from
childhood all of them that's the thing
we need to fix but we can fix it
everyone can get to that state of peace
that state of growth but if you ignore
the body you ignore the threat networks
in the body and you just work on the
Mind you'll never get there and it hurts
to try I want everyone at home to know
you've done this to us but you have to
leave where can people follow you
go to Dave asprey.com I'm dave.aspberry
Instagram human upgrade is my podcast
danger coffee is my coffee and upgrade
Labs you want to be a franchisee own and
upgradelabs.com there it is guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
peace if you guys enjoyed that episode
with Dave asprey click here now to learn
the daily hacks to live longer and look
younger with anti-aging expert David
Sinclair well before we get into what we
can do today just because it's a
Continuum of this resetting what my lab
and many others now are doing is